So in this partricular project the Html and index.css and a skeleton index.js was given to us.(Basically a grid was on view in LH:3000) Then through a tutorial i was able to finish the game using react JSX.

I first learned to "Pass Data Through Props". In the Board’s renderSquare method, I changed the code to pass a prop called value to the Square. I changed the Square’s render method to show that value by replacing {/* TODO */} with {this.props.value} Where we seen a number in each square in the rendered output where it was previously blank squares. Basically passing a prop from a parent (Board) to a child (Square).

Next thing I had to do was make an Interactive Component, where we created a button with an onClick function. I tested this by creating an alert window in my browser when a button was clicked. The next step i had to cover was to get the Square to "remember" it got clicked, and fill it with an “X” mark. For this i got introduced to "state". I learned that React components can have state by setting this.state in their constructors. So first I had to add a constructor to the class to inialize the state. In JavaScript classes, you need to always call super when defining the constructor of a subclass. All React component classes that have a constructor should start with a super(props) call.I changed the Square’s render method to display the current state’s value when clicked, Replaced this.props.value with this.state.value inside the <button> tag. Replaced the onClick={...} event handler with onClick={() => this.setState({value: 'X'})} By calling this.setState from an onClick handler in the Square’s render method, I telling React to re-render that Square whenever its <button> is clicked. After the update, the Square’s this.state.value will be 'X', so I’ll see the X on the game board.

I now have the basic building blocks for a tic-tac-toe game. To have a complete game, I now need to alternate placing “X”s and “O”s on the board, and I need a way to determine a winner.

Currently, each Square component maintains the game’s state. To check for a winner, I will maintain the value of each of the 9 squares in one location.

We may think that Board should just ask each Square for the Square’s state. Although this approach is possible in React, this is discouraged because the code becomes difficult to understand, susceptible to bugs, and hard to refactor. Instead, the best approach is to store the game’s state in the parent Board component instead of in each Square. The Board component can tell each Square what to display by passing a prop, just like we did when I passed a number to each Square.

To collect data from multiple children, or to have two child components communicate with each other, you need to declare the shared state in their parent component instead. The parent component can pass the state back down to the children by using props; this keeps the child components in sync with each other and with the parent component. Lifting state into a parent component is common when React components are refactored.

In the beginning, I passed the value prop down from the Board to show numbers from 0 to 8 in every Square. In a different previous step, I replaced the numbers with an “X” mark determined by Square’s own state. This is why Square currently ignores the value prop passed to it by the Board. I then used the prop passing mechanism again. I modified the Board to instruct each individual Square about its current value ('X', 'O', or null). I have already defined the squares array in the Board’s constructor, and I then modified the Board’s renderSquare method to read from it. Each Square will now receive a value prop that will either be 'X', 'O', or null for empty squares. Next, I need to change what happens when a Square is clicked. The Board component now maintains which squares are filled. I need to create a way for the Square to update the Board’s state. Since state is considered to be private to a component that defines it, I cannot update the Board’s state directly from Square. Instead, I’ll pass down a function from the Board to the Square, and I’ll have Square call that function when a square is clicked. Now I am passing down two props from Board to Square: value and onClick. The onClick prop is a function that Square can call when clicked. I’ll make the following changes to Square:
Replace this.state.value with this.props.value in Square’s render method
Replace this.setState() with this.props.onClick() in Square’s render method
Delete the constructor from Square because Square no longer keeps track of the game’s state.